# Climate trackers

The code in this repository powers the BuzzFeed News [climate tracker](https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/peteraldhous/climate-change-data-charts-guide-crisis). It is deployed on a Linode cloud server. The scripts are run manually as needed when data is updated. Except where noted below, the scripts download and process data from various sources and update Datawrapper charts or custom JavaScript files used render text dynamically.

### Scripts
`atmospheric_co2.R`
`emissions.R`
`last_updated.R` Run immediately after any other update to refresh the time of last data update in the post.
`map_layers.R` Outputs geojson and geotiff files used to update Mapbox tilesets.
`policies_pledges.R`
`sea_level.R`
`temperature.R`

### Other files/folders
`csv` To hold processed data files, posted to `data.buzzfeed.com/projects/climate-files`.
`geojson` `geotiff` To hold the fles generated by the `map_layers.R` script. These are used to update Mapbox tilesets and a style that power the map embedded in the post.
`js` To hold custom Javascript files used to render dynamic text.
`raw` To hold non-updating data files used by the scripts.
`temperature_diff.qml` Used in QGIS to style the geotiff file generated by the `map_layers.R` script.
`temperature.html` Web page used to display the map embedded in the post, hosted at `data.buzzfeed.com/projects/climate-files`.

### Post using the output of these scripts

[**The Climate Crisis, By The Numbers: Your Guide To Humanity’s Greatest Challenge**](https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/peteraldhous/climate-change-data-charts-guide-crisis)

### Questions
Email peter.aldhous@buzzfeed.com or call 415-503-7323.